Review ch4 (#550)
worldbank/dime-data-handbook: chapters/4-acquisition.tex

\end{fullwidth}

> \section{Acquiring data ethically}

Reviewer: In addition to "ethically", I see "transparent" and "ensuring reproducibility" as threads through the section. Would this title be too long?
```suggestion
\section{Acquiring data ethically and transparently while ensuring reproducibility }
```

Author: The suggestion is a bit long, i changed to 'acquiring data ethically and reproducibly', sound ok?

Reviewer: yes, that sounds good!

-- that is, when people are disclosing information to you
that you could not obtain simply by observation or through public records.

If the research team is requesting access to existing data, 
they must enter into data licensing agreements\index{data licensing}
to access the data and publish research outputs based on it.

> These agreements should make clear from the outset whether the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These agreements should make clear from the outset whether and how the
```

> research team can make the original data, any portion thereof, or derivatives\sidenote{

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
research team can make the original data public, or publish any portion or derivative of the data.\sidenote{
```

	\textbf{Derivatives} of data can be indicators, aggregates,

> 	visualizations etc. created from the original data.}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	visualizations, etc. created from the original data.}
```

> of the data, public.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

If the research team requires access to existing data for novel research,
terms of use should be agreed on with the data owner,
typically through a data licensing agreement.
These terms should specify what data elements will be received,

> what purpose the data will be used for, and who will have access to the data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
what purposes the data will be used for, and who will have access to the data.
```

Then you should have different standard procedures for each category,
so that the intended processes for handling the data are clear.

\subsection{Receiving data from development partners}

Research teams granted access to existing data may receive that data in a number of different ways.
You may receive access to an existing server,

> or physical access to extract certain information,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
physical access to extract certain information,
```

or a one-time data transfer.
In all cases, you must take action to ensure
that data is transferred through
secure channels so that confidentiality is not compromised.
See the section \textit{Handling data securely} later in this chapter for how to do that.
Keep in mind that compliance with ethical research standards may
in some cases require a stricter level of security than initially proposed by the partner agency.
It is also critical at this stage to request any and all available documentation for the data;

> this could take the form of a data dictionary, codebook, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
this could take the form of a data dictionary or codebook, 
```

> manual for administrative data collection system, reports,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a manual for administrative data collection system, detailed reports or operating procedures,
```

> among others. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
or another format. 
```

If no written documentation is available, 

> interview the person(s) responsible for managing the data,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
interview the person(s) responsible for managing the data
```

the sampling protocols and field adherence to those protocols, and any sampling weights;
what variable(s) uniquely identify the dataset(s), and how different datasets can be linked;
and a description of field procedures and quality controls.
DIME uses as a standard the Data Documentation Initiative (DDI), which is supported by the
World Bank's Microdata Catalog.\sidenote{\url{https://microdata.worldbank.org}}

As soon as the desired pieces of information are stored together,
think about which ones are the components of what you would call a dataset.
Often, when you are receiving data from a partner,
even highly-structured materials such as registers or records
are not, as received, equivalent to a research dataset,
and require initial cleaning, restructuring, or recombination
to reach the stage we would consider a raw research dataset.
This is as much an art than a science:
you want to keep information together that is best contextualized together,
but you also want to information granular as much as possible,
particularly when there are varying units of observation.
There usually won't be a single correct way to answer this question,

> and the research team will need to decide how the materials received.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and the research team will need to decide how to organize the materials received.
```

Soon, you will begin to build research datasets from this set of information,
and these will become your original clean data,
which will be the material published, released, and cited
as the starting point of your data.
(If funders or publishers request that ``raw'' data be published or cataloged,

> for example, this is the dataset that you should provide.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
for example, this is the dataset that you should provide,
unless they specifically require data in the original format you received it.)
```

These first datasets created from the received materials
are the objects you need to catalog, release, and license.

> Now is a good time to being assessing disclosure risk

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now is a good time to begin assessing disclosure risk
```

  \url{https://dimewiki.worldbank.org/Piloting\_Survey\_Content}}.
The objectives at this stage are to improve the structure and length of the questionnaire,
refine the phrasing and translation of specific questions,

> check for potential sensitivities” and for enumerator/respondent interactions,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
check for potential sensitivities and for enumerator/respondent interactions,
```

I assume that was a typo?

The first step is to develop a detailed \textbf{enumerator manual}.\sidenote{See the DIME Wiki
	for a more detailed discussion of how to design an enumerator manual and a template for enumerator manuals: 
	\url{https://dimewiki.worldbank.org/wiki/Enumerator\_Training\#Enumerator\_manual}}
	\index{enumerator manual}
The manual should explain each question in the survey instrument,
address any issues that arose during piloting
and cover frequently asked questions.
The manual must also describe survey protocols and conventions,
such as how to select or confirm the identity of respondents,
and standardized means for recording responses such as "Don't know".\sidenote{See the DIME Wiki
	for examples of common survey protocols: \url{https://dimewiki.worldbank.org/Survey\_Protocols}}
	\index{survey protocols}

The enumerator manual serves as the basis for \textbf{enumerator training}.
	\index{enumerator training}
We recommend that training be divided into two sessions:
first a training-of-trainers, and then enumerator training. 
The training-of-trainers should include the field supervisors and survey managers, 
and should be led by the research team.

> The objective is to ensure the survey leaders are 

Author: resolved in a1efa1d636a828b751e92a46009bcddb58826b0c

in advance of the start of data collection,
so that data checks can start as soon as data starts to come in. 
A research assistant should run the high-frequency checks (HFCs) on a daily basis 
for the duration of the survey.\sidenote{To learn more about what types of checks should be included in the HFCs,
	see the DIME Wiki: \url{https://dimewiki.worldbank.org/High\_Frequency\_Checks}}
HFCs should include monitor consistency and range of responses to each question, 
survey programming validation, tests for enumerator-specific effects, 
and checks for duplicate entries and completeness of online submissions vis-a-vis the field log.

High-frequency checks will only improve data quality
if the issues they catch are communicated to the data provider
and corrections are documented and applied to the data.
This requires close communication with the field team, 
so that enumerators are made aware of data quality issues promptly,
and a transparent system for document issues and corrections. 
There are many ways to communicate results of high-frequency checks to the field team.
What's most important is to find a way to create actionable information for your team.

> \texttt{ipacheck}, for example, generates a spreadsheet with flagged errors;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\texttt{ipacheck},\sidenote{
  \url{https://github.com/PovertyAction/high-frequency-checks}}
for example, generates a spreadsheet with flagged errors;
```
Any reason we removed this link when moving this section from ch5 to ch4?

these can be sent directly to the data collection teams.
Many teams choose other formats to display results,
such as online dashboards created by custom scripts.
It is also possible to automate communication of errors to the field team
by adding scripts to link the HFCs with a messaging platform.
Any of these solutions are possible:
what works best for your team will depend on such factors as
cellular networks in field work areas, whether field supervisors have access to laptops,
internet speed, and coding skills of the team preparing the HFC workflows.

Careful \textbf{field validation} is essential for high-quality survey data.
While we cannot control natural measurement error,\sidenote{
	See \citet{kondylis2015measuring} for an example.}
which comes from variation in the realization of key outcomes,
there is often an opportunity to reduce error arising from inaccuracies in the data generation process.
\textbf{Back-checks}, spotchecks and other validation audits help ensure that 

> data is not falsified, incomplete, or otherwise suspect.\sidenote{For instructions
> 	on how to design and implement Back Checks, see the DIME Wiki: \url{https://dimewiki.worldbank.org/Back\_Checks}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
data is not falsified, incomplete, or otherwise suspect.\sidenote{
  More details on how to design and implement Back Checks
  can be found on the DIME Wiki:
  \url{https://dimewiki.worldbank.org/Back\_Checks}}
```

Field validation is also an opportunity to ensure that all field protocols are followed.
For back-checks, a random subset of observations is selected,
and a subset of information from the full survey is
verified through a brief targeted survey with the original respondent.
For spot-checks, field supervisors (and, if contextually appropriate, research team staff)

> should perform unannounced accompaniment of all enumerators, 

Reviewer: "should perform unannounced accompaniment of all enumerators" - I don't understand this part of the sentence

Author: changed wording to clarify e87cbb9c606e7728638b96f70109b51596ac7715

to confirm first-hand that survey protocols are followed and 
survey questions are well understood. 
A complementary approach is audio audits, 
in which a subset of the interview is recorded, and listened to by a trained data validator

> (audio audits require additional permissions, and must be included in informed consent).

Reviewer: Seems like we start to discuss audio audits here, then go back to back-checks, and then the section ends on audio audits. Is there something I do not understand about the workflow that makes us go back and forth?

Author: removed redundant sentence on audio audits b4e56df23efcc633b500791abbd7d7a9e08fe886

Design of the back-checks or validations follows the same survey design
principles discussed above: you should use the analysis plan
or list of key outcomes to establish which subset of variables to prioritize,
and similarly focus on errors that would be major flags for poor quality data.

> Real-time access to the data massively increases the potential utility of back checks,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Real-time access to the data massively increases the potential utility of back-checks,
```

and both simplifies and improves the rigor of the associated workflows.
You can use the raw data to draw the back-check or validation sample;
this ensures that the validation is correctly apportioned across observations.
As soon as high frequency checks are complete,

> the back check data can be tested against

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the back-check data can be tested against
```

the original data to identify areas of concern in real-time.
The \texttt{bcstats} command is a useful tool for analyzing back-check data in Stata.\sidenote{\citet{white2016bcstats}}

> Some electronic surveys surveys also provide a unique opportunity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some electronic surveys software also provide a unique opportunity
```

can be made at the end of each day and tested the following, until no further field errors arise.
The data-focused pilot should be done in advance of enumerator training.

\subsection{Training Enumerators}
Once a survey instrument is designed, piloted on paper to refine content, 
programmed, piloted electronically to refine the data,

> and fully translated to any local language(s), 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and fully translated to any local languages, 
```

Enumerator training has three components: review of the paper questionnaire,
review of the electronic survey instrument, and field practice. 
The training schedule should allow for significant discussion and feedback
after each component. 
Training with a paper survey instrument is critical, 
even for surveys that will be deployed electronically. 
Starting with paper ensures a focus on survey content and structure
before diving into the technical components of the survey software.
It is much easier for enumerators to understand
the overall flow of a survey instrument and 
the range of possible participant responses
on a paper survey than on a tablet,
and it is easier to translate that understanding to 
digital functionality later.\sidenote{
  DIME Analytics developed standard guidelines 
  for introducing field staff to the survey software DIME 
  uses most commonly, SurveyCTO:
  \url{https://osf.io/n7ctd/}}
The classroom training should be very interactive, using methods such as role plays
and mock interviews to test understanding of survey protocols and modules.
The field practice should be carefully supervised, 
so as to provide individualized feedback to each enumerator. 

> Enumerators should submit data from practice interviews to the server,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

When introducing the digital form of the survey,
enumerators should submit data from practice interviews to the server,
```

Reviewer 2: Added paragraph break here, OK?

What's most important is to find a way to create actionable information for your team.
\texttt{ipacheck},\sidenote{
  \url{https://github.com/PovertyAction/high-frequency-checks}}
for example, generates a spreadsheet with flagged errors;
these can be sent directly to the data collection teams.
Many teams choose other formats to display results,
such as online dashboards created by custom scripts.
It is also possible to automate communication of errors to the field team
by adding scripts to link the HFCs with a messaging platform.
Any of these solutions are possible:
what works best for your team will depend on such factors as
cellular networks in field work areas, whether field supervisors have access to laptops,
internet speed, and coding skills of the team preparing the HFC workflows.

Careful \textbf{field validation} is essential for high-quality survey data.
While we cannot control natural measurement error,\sidenote{
	See \citet{kondylis2015measuring} for an example.}
which comes from variation in the realization of key outcomes,
there is often an opportunity to reduce error arising from inaccuracies in the data generation process.

> \textbf{Back-checks}, spotchecks and other validation audits help ensure that 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
\textbf{Back-checks}, spot checks, and other validation audits help ensure that 
```

data is not falsified, incomplete, or otherwise suspect.\sidenote{

>   More details on how to design and implement Back Checks

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  More details on how to design and implement back-checks
```

  can be found on the DIME Wiki:
  \url{https://dimewiki.worldbank.org/Back\_Checks}}
Field validation is also an opportunity to ensure that all field protocols are followed.
For back-checks, a random subset of observations is selected,
and a subset of information from the full survey is
verified through a brief targeted survey with the original respondent.

> For spot-checks, field supervisors (and, if contextually appropriate, research team staff)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For spot checks, field supervisors (and, if contextually appropriate, research team staff)
```

should do unannounced field visits to each enumerator, 
to confirm first-hand that they are following survey protocols and 
understand the survey questions well. 
Design of the back-checks or validations follows the same survey design
principles discussed above: you should use the analysis plan
or list of key outcomes to establish which subset of variables to prioritize,
and similarly focus on errors that would be major flags for poor quality data.

Real-time access to the data massively increases the potential utility of back-checks,
and both simplifies and improves the rigor of the associated workflows.
You can use the raw data to draw the back-check or validation sample;
this ensures that the validation is correctly apportioned across observations.
As soon as high frequency checks are complete,
the back-check data can be tested against

> the original data to identify areas of concern in real-time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the original data to identify areas of concern in real time.
```
